---
permalink: /articles/scaling
title: Building the Scale Layer
categories:
  - articles
breadcrumbs:
  - ['Articles', '/articles']
  - ['The Scale Layer', '/scaling']
layout: post
section: overview
---

# {{ page.title }}

One of the benefits of building on the Iron.io infrastructure is the ability 
to effortlessly scale from a single worker running a single job to thousands 
of workers processing enormous numbers of jobs every minute. The hosted, 
managed quality of Iron.io's services means this scaling happens without any 
runtime effort on your part. While the scaling is "free", it is still helpful 
to architect your application in a way that allows for it to be horizontally 
scalable and concurrent. This minor amount of forethought will mean that your 
applications will be able to scale as large as you need without any intervention 
on your part.

We've been building concurrent, scalable applications (like the Iron.io APIs) 
for a while now, and in our experience, there are three major patterns to 
scaling applications in parallel:

1. Army of Workers
2. Master/Slave
3. Continuous Stream

Each of these patterns have some variations on the theme, and can be tweaked 
for your specific use case.

## Army of Workers

The Army of Workers pattern is the simplest pattern to implement, but is also 
the most naive and brittle pattern. It consists of assigning a single worker 
to each task you have. This is a relatively straightforward implementation: 
simply define the code your worker should run, then queue a task for the worker.

### Benefits

* Easy implementation
* Low code overhead
* Sterile environment for each task&mdash;no danger of tasks bleeding into each 
  other.

### Drawbacks

* Inefficient for quick jobs&mdash;the worker setup time will take longer than 
  the task itself.
* If a task fails, it reports an error but is **not** retried.
* May overload databases/APIs as there is no upper limit for how many of your 
  workers may be run in parallel.

### Example

The [XYZ sample app](https://github.com/iron-io/XYZ) uses the Army of Workers 
pattern to manage parallel scalability.

## Master/Slave


## Continuous Stream
